## Hall Effect
Conductive (or semiconductive) plate in a magnetic field with a current applied. Moving charges will deflect to one side of the plate (depending on direction of magnetic field and the type of charge carriers.) This will create a voltage across the plate purpendicular to the current, which will stabalize at the **hall voltage**. This voltage is porportional to the strength of the magnetic field. 

## Who would win in a fight? Electricity or magnetism?
$$\mu_0\epsilon_o = \frac 1{c^2}$$ We will understand this equation $\uparrow$ later.

### Two protons
If stationary, they only experience a repulsive electric force. But, if they are both moving in the same direction ($v << c$, $\vec{v} \perp \hat{r}$), they will experience an attractive magnetic force. $$F_{21,e} = \frac 1{4\pi\epsilon_0} * \frac{e^2}{r^2}\;;F_{21,m} = \frac {\mu_0}{4\pi} * \frac{e^2v^2}{r^2}$$ If we take the ratio of these forces, $$\frac{F_{21,m}}{F_{21,e}} = \mu_0\epsilon_0v^2 = \frac{v^2}{c^2}$$In a typical wire ($v\approx 3 \times 10^{-5}\; m/s$), this ratio is $10^{-26}$, so it is very very small at nonrelativistic speeds. 

## Magnetic Torque
A loop of wire perpendicular (carrying a current) to a magnetic field and connected to an axel, also perpendicular the the magnetic field, will experience forces on the parts of the loop parallel to the axel. Because the current will be travelling in different directions relative to the mangetic field, they will recieve different forces. This difference in force creates no net force, but it creates a net torque. We can find this torque using the magnetic dipole moment. 
$$\mu = IA = Iwh$$$$\vec \tau = \vec \mu \times \vec B$$This torque equation works for all shapes of loops.

## How to make a motor
Flip the current every everytime the torque reaches a stable equilibrium. You can do this through a split-ring *commutator* (brushes).

## Motional $emf$
Moving a metal bar through a magnetic field.$$emf = |E| L = vBL$$