## Superconductors
Some materials have a critical temperature under which it has 0 resistance. 

## Flux 
$$-\frac{d\Phi}{dt} = emf$$If $emf > 0$ $$I = \frac{emf}{R} \rightarrow \infty$$$I$ cannot be infinite. Therefore, flux cannot change through a supercunductor.

### Meissner Effect
Superconductors expel magnetic fields, which is a quantum mechanical property. Superconductors can create currents which perfectly cancel external magnetic fields. 

## Inductor
$$emf = \frac{dI}{dt} \mu_0 N^2 \pi r^2/ d $$$$emf \hat= L\frac{dI}{dt}$$Units in $H$ (Henry).

## Transformer
Has a core, assume that the magnetic flux is constant throughout the core. Also assume that the cross-sectional area of each coil is constant. $$\frac{emf_1}{emf_2} = \frac{N_1}{N_2}$$
## RL Circuit
Using KLR,$$emf_b - RI - L\frac{dI}{dt} = 0\;;emf = RI + L\frac{dI}{dt}$$This is a differential equation, which can be solved to $$I(t) = \frac{\epsilon}{R}\left( 1 - e^{-t (R/L)}\right)$$Thus,$$\tau = \frac{L}{R}$$Also solved for $V_L$,$$V(t) = \epsilon e^{-Rt/L}$$As time goes on, inductor becomes a short circuit. This is the opposite of a capacitor.

## Inductor Power
$$P = IV = LI\frac{dI}{dt}$$Which can be integrated to get:
$$U_L = \frac12 LI^2$$Energy density of magnetic field. $$\frac{U_L}V = \frac12 \frac1\mu_0 B^2$$This result is generalized and works for any magnetic field.

### Electromagnetic Energy Density
$$u = \frac12 \epsilon_0 E^2 + \frac12 \frac1\mu_0 B^2$$

## LC Circuit
Oscilating! Because ~no resistance~ $$U = \frac{Q^2}{2C} + \frac12 LI^2\;;f=\frac1{2\pi \sqrt{LC}}$$
