#lecture

## Electric Dipoles
Electric feild on the axis points in the direction in the dipole and varies by $$\vec{E} = \frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}\frac{2p}{r^3}\hat{p}$$
Where $p = qs$ 

The Electric feild on the plane bisecting the dipole is in the direction opposite to the dipole and is half that of what is on the axis.

$$\vec{E} = \frac{-1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}\frac{p}{r^3}\hat{p}$$
### Dipole in a Uniform Feild
Forces on $+q$ and $-q$ are equal in magnitude but opposite in direction, applying a torque.

$$\vec{\tau} = \vec{p} \times \vec{E}$$
The Equilibrium of the system will be when $\vec{p}\; \| \;\vec{E}$

This is interesting because you can use an electric dipole to measure the direction of an electric feild!!! (i.e. basically a compass but with an electric feild)

A microwave adds an electric feild to food (that has water, a permanant dipole), and keeps switching the direction to jiggle the water and heat it up.

## Conservation of Charge
- Charges can be destroyed! But only in (+,-) pairs. For example:$$e^- + e^+ = \gamma + \gamma$$
### How do objects become charged?
- By contact with other objects (rubbing)
	- Glass (+) and silk (-)
		- Why do certain things get certain charge?
			- We dont know we are researching will get back to you later B)
- Breaking large molecules (ion transfer)

### Fun with tape!
Tape becomes charged when ripped off a surface. Will repel other charged pieces of tape. But will attract towards neutral objects. Why is that? Polarization!

### Polarization
Atoms typically have spherically symetrical charge distrobutions. Putting an atom into an alectric feild **induces** a dipole by manipulating the distrobution of the electron cloud.
$$\vec{p} = \alpha\vec{E}$$
where $\alpha$ is the polarizability of a material. $[p] = Cm$. $[E] = \frac{N}{C}$. $[\alpha] = \frac{C^2m}{N}$.

### What is the force between a neutral atom and a point charge?
1. point charge creates feild $\vec{E_1}$ at atom $$\vec{E_1} = \frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}\frac{q_2}{r^2}$$
2. Feild $\vec{E_1}$ polarizes atom $$\vec{p} = \alpha\vec{E} = \frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}\frac{\alpha q}{r^2}$$
3. Induced dipole creates field $\vec{E_2}$ at point charge $$\vec{E_2} = \frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}\frac{2\vec{p}}{r^3} = \frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}\frac{2\alpha\vec{E_1}}{r^3} = \frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}^2\frac{2\alpha q_1}{r^5}$$
4. Force $F$ acts upon the point charge $$\vec{F} = q\vec{E} = \frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}^2\frac{2\alpha q_1^2}{r^5} *-\vec{s}$$
Atraction can happen if only *one* object is charge.

Repulsion only happens if *both* objects are chared similarly.

