# Magnets n Shit B)

## Dipoles in magnets
Magnetic field lines are **always** closed loops. Like poles repel; unlike poles attract. Magnetic feild lines go from N to S. While electric particles are electric *monopoles*, magnetic dipoles are never monopoles (to our current knowledge). Try cutting a bar magnet in half. It just makes two smaller bar magnets. 

## Conventional Current $I$ 
Ficticious positive charges flow from an area of high potential to low potential in a conductor.  $$I = |q|nA\bar{v} \rightarrow \left[ \frac{\text{Coulombs}}{\text{second}}\right] = \left[ \text{Amperes} \right]$$
## Electron Current $i$
Electrons flow from an area of low potential to an area of high potential. $$i = nA\bar{v} \rightarrow \left[ \frac{\text{electrons}}{\text{second}}\right]$$$n$ is the electron desnity, $A$ is the cross sectional area of the wire, and $\bar{v}$ is the average speed of moving charges: $$n = \left[\frac{e^-}{m^3}\right]\;;\;A = \left[m^2\right]\;;\;\bar{v} = \left[\frac{m}{s}\right]$$ 
## Biot-Savart Law
For a charge: $$\vec{B} = \frac{\mu}{4\pi}\frac{q\vec{v} \times \hat{r}}{|\vec{r}|^2}$$For a wire: $$\vec{B} = \frac{\mu}{4\pi}\frac{I\Delta \vec{l} \times \hat{r}}{|\vec{r}|^2}$$We arrive at this conclusion by realizing that $$q\vec{v} \rightarrow Nq\vec{v} = n\Delta V q\vec{v} = n\Delta\vec{l}Aq\vec{v} = nAq\bar{v}\Delta\vec{l} = I\Delta\vec{l}$$
### Another Right Hand Rule
Place thumb along wire in direction of **conventional current**, curling fingers around wire. Fingers point in direction of $B$-field.

## $B$-field in bisecting plane of straight wire
Wire along $z$-axis, bisecting plane is $x$-$y$-plane. $$\vec{r} = \left\langle x, 0, -z \right\rangle \rightarrow |r|^2 = x^2 + z^2\;;\;\hat{r} \frac{\left\langle x, 0, -z \right\rangle}{x^2 + z^2}$$Lets find some math :)$$\Delta \vec{l} = \Delta \vec{z} \rightarrow \Delta \vec{z} \times \hat{r} = \frac{1}{|r|} \Delta \vec{z} \times \vec{r} = ... =\frac{x\Delta z}{\sqrt{x^2 + z^2}}\hat{y}$$Putting this into our Biot-Savart law equation for a wire,$$\Delta B = \frac{\mu}{4\pi}\frac{I\Delta \vec{l} \times \hat{r}}{|\vec{r}|^2} = \frac{\mu}{4\pi}\frac{I\Delta \vec{z} \times \hat{r}}{|\vec{r}|^2} = \frac{\mu}{4\pi}\frac{I\frac{x\Delta z}{\sqrt{x^2 + z^2}}\hat{y}}{x^2 + z^2}$$We can then integrate! (and generalize for the entire $x$-$y$-plane) $$B = \int \Delta B = \frac{\mu}{4\pi}\hat{y} \int \frac{I{x}}{(x^2 + z^2)^\frac{3}{2}} dz = \frac{\mu_0}{4\pi} \frac{IL}{r\sqrt{r^2 + \left(\frac{L}{2}\right)^2}}\hat{\theta}$$As $r << L$, $$B = \frac{\mu_0I}{2\pi r}\hat{\theta}$$
## BIOT SAVART LAW IS JUST AN APPROXIMATION!?!?!
Magnetic field depends on the ***FRAME OF REFERENCE***!!?!??!?!?

Velocity of charged particles is dependant on inertial frame of reference, so a moving frame of reference and measure a magnetic field from a stationary object. "On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies" $\leftarrow$ kinda an important paper!!! Little known guy named Albert wrote it. 